 The Wood Whisperer is sponsored by Titebond.
 So we're back in my home garage to start another simple DIY project with limited tools, limited
 materials, and it's going to be really, really cool.
 So this is the planar stand we built last time.
 One thing that really helps when you have a planar is having extra work support because
 sometimes you feed something in on the inside, you've got to run around to the other side
 to catch it.
 It's nice to have some kind of support there.
 So we're going to build an adjustable height work stand that you could use on the
 planar.
 As outfeed for a chop saw, whatever you want to use it for.
 We're also going to do this in a situation where I have limited power again.
 And I've got the Jackery Explorer 1000 here to just help me along with charging my
 batteries.
 Still got the music here just in case we want some tunes.
 And I've got my laptop charging here at the same time.
 So speaking of the laptop, we're just going to go in, grab the measurements,
 get them on paper and start cutting the material.
 The whole stand is made with a couple of two by fours and a one by four.
 You ready?
 Nice and wobbly.
 On most woodworking projects, I advise people to not cut all of their parts
 right at the beginning.
 But that's when we're dealing with expensive hardwoods and incredibly
 precise measurements.
 On a project like this, it's totally fine to chop everything right at the
 start and then move into assembly.
 We'll assemble the legs of the stand first.
 A piece of scrap helps support the upright while I use a square to get
 it all aligned properly.
 By the way, if you have to work in a cold shop, it's a good idea to
 keep your glue inside the house and possibly take the parts into a warm
 place to help the glue cure.
 Type on two really doesn't want to be in anything lower than 55 degrees
 Fahrenheit or 13 degrees Celsius.
 Next, with a couple of screws at each joint, the legs are ready to go.
 To connect the legs to each other.
 We'll install a couple of stretchers.
 So I'm just measuring out the locations and then pre-drilling for
 screws here.
 Now, this is one of those do as I say, not as I do situation.
 I really don't advise using your drill battery as a hammer.
 Thankfully, these are like super non-critical.
 But I'm doing it anyway.
 I'll clamp the stretchers in place first and then drive the
 screws.
 Now we can start cutting the one by fours that will make up the
 adjustable work support.
 I got to make four of these.
 So I'm just going to do this.
 Well, I like to use both sides of my brain.
 We'll have two pieces glued and screwed to each leg flush with
 the top.
 This provides a channel for the upright to traveling.
 Yeah, I don't want that to be up if anything.
 I want it down so they're not in the way.
 Let's go.
 Well, it's a good time for a break.
 So we don't need and this is a good time to take a break and
 tell you about this Jackery Explorer 1000.
 We got a lot going on in a very compact form factor here.
 Got a beautiful digital display.
 It tells you how much battery you have left, what kind of
 output or input.
 If you're charging it, we of course have our AC ports here,
 DC, as well as our USB ports, which is great for all the
 devices.
 Just about everything I have charges via USB these days.
 And of course, a cigarette adapter too.
 And if you need it, think about camping.
 Having a built in light is a pretty nice feature.
 Now, to charge this thing up, you simply plug it into the
 wall or I think one of the coolest features is being able
 to use the solar panels.
 And while a solar power generator like this has some
 applications in the shop, you could certainly use certain
 small tools with it.
 And if you're in a low or no power situation, it could
 definitely get you out of a bind.
 What I'm thinking about are summer camping trips, just
 times when you're in a remote location, you don't
 necessarily have good access to electricity.
 Something like this is really going to come in handy.
 And when we first moved to Missouri, if you follow me
 on social media, you might have seen, within like the
 first two weeks of being here, we had a massive flood
 and I was not prepared for that.
 I watched my sump pump in the basement stop working in
 the middle of this flood.
 I just thought to myself, wow, we are screwed if this
 water level comes up too high because I didn't have
 any kind of battery backup.
 So having a generator like this in the house is going
 to be just a good insurance policy for us.
 Provide endless clean energy with solar panels and
 fast charging.
 These units are incredibly quiet, safe and reliable.
 And you can support high power devices, whether
 you're outdoors inside the house during an outage
 or in a shop space with limited power options.
 Right now, Jackery is having a big holiday sale
 that you don't want to miss with up to 28% off.
 So thanks for your support, Jackery, and let's
 get back to our build.
 Now let's cut the support piece to length, taking
 the measurement from the workstand itself.
 With the movable vertical pieces in place, I can
 mark their location so that I know where to drive
 the screws through the top support piece.
 I can then drop the piece in with some glue and
 drive a couple more screws.
 Always a good idea to pre-drill if you can.
 I'm finished.
 Now we need to drill a series of holes.
 The top hole goes all the way through both pieces.
 The rest of the holes will go on the movable
 piece and you could space them however you
 like.
 The spacing should be as close as you dare
 since you don't want the holes to run into each
 other, but the more holes you have, the more
 height options you have.
 One, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
 I added seven, total of eight holes.
 Let's do that on the other side real quick.
 Too cheap to spring for a Bradpoint bit.
 Go faster.
 Yeah.
 Now we'll cut a couple of lengths of three
 eighths inch dowel stock that'll serve as stops.
 Two holes up.
 Oh, hello.
 But will it support my booty?
 All right, so I think that just about does it.
 Now a couple of things you could do to maybe
 make this a little bit better.
 First of all, if you have a Bradpoint bit instead
 of a regular twist bit, that's going to give
 you much more accurate placement of your holes.
 And that's critical for alignment.
 So if you have a little bit of trouble getting
 your dowel to seat correctly, you could always
 make the outer holes a little bit bigger.
 Just give yourself a little bit of room and
 slack there, and that should help you find
 this interior hole.
 That's what we did, and it seems to work pretty well.
 You can also adjust the spacing and maybe
 the size of the dowel just to have more
 increments in heights.
 If you find that this just is always a
 little bit off, you might try a different
 hole pattern, right?
 So there's a lot of creative ways that you
 can actually improve this design, but I think
 it's going to work pretty well.
 Only thing left to do is to try it out
 with the planer and see if it works.
 Oh, that's funny, you can go under the board
 too to get even higher.
 Neat-o patina, here like that.
 Now we're going to do a test run with the planer,
 but we don't have dust collection in here,
 so this stuff, the chips, they're just
 going to go everywhere.
 Jason here is going to hold the shop vac.
 The shop vac's going to be plugged into the
 jackery, and we're just going to see if
 we can't make it a little less expensive.