 The Wood Whisperer is sponsored by Titebond.
 So we're back in my home garage to start another simple DIY project with limited tools, limited
 materials, and it's going to be really, really cool.
 So this is the planar stand we built last time.
 One thing that really helps when you have a planar is having extra work support.
 Sometimes you feed something in on the inside, you've got to run around to the other side
 to catch it.
 It's nice to have some kind of support there.
 So we're going to build an adjustable height work stand that you could use on the planar.
 You could use it as outfeed for a chop saw or whatever you want to use it for.
 We're also going to do this in a situation where I have limited power.
 Again, and I've got the Jackery Explorer 1000 here that just helped me along with charging
 my batteries.
 I've still got the music here just in case we want some tunes.
 And I've got my laptop charging here at the same time.
 So speaking of the laptop, we're just going to go in, grab the measurements, get them
 on paper and start cutting the material.
 The whole stand is made with a couple of 2x4s and a 1x4.
 Okay, ready?
 Nice and wobbly?
 Yeah, hit it.
 Yeah!
 On most woodworking projects, I advise people to not cut all of their parts right at the
 beginning.
 But that's when we're dealing with expensive hardwoods and incredibly precise measurements.
 On a project like this, it's totally fine to chop everything right at the start
 and then move into assembly.
 We need the laser.
 We'll assemble the legs of the stand first.
 A piece of scrap helps support the upright while I use a square to get it all aligned
 properly.
 By the way, if you have to work in a cold shop, it's a good idea to keep your glue inside
 the house and possibly take the parts into a warm place to help the glue cure.
 Type-on 2 really doesn't want to be in anything lower than 55 degrees Fahrenheit or 13 degrees
 Celsius.
 Next, with a couple of screws at each joint, the legs are ready to go.
 To connect the legs to each other, we'll install a couple of stretchers.
 So I'm just measuring out the locations and then pre-drilling for screws.
 Now this is one of those do-as-I-say-not-as-I-do situations I really don't advise using your
 drill battery as a hammer.
 Thankfully, these are like super non-critical, but I'm doing it anyway.
 I'll clamp the stretchers in place first and then drive the screws.
 Now we can start cutting the 1x4s that will make up the adjustable work support.
 We'll have two pieces glued and screwed to each leg flush with the top.
 This provides a channel for the upright to travel in.
 It's a good time for a break.
 This is a good time to take a break and tell you about this Jackery Explorer 1000.
 We've got a lot going on and a very compact form factor here.
 You've got a beautiful digital display.
 It tells you how much battery you have left, what kind of output or input if you're
 charging it.
 We of course have our AC ports here, DC, as well as our USB ports, which is great for
 all the devices.
 Just about everything I have charges via USB these days.
 Of course, a cigarette adapter too.
 If you need it, think about camping, having a built-in light is a pretty nice feature.
 To charge this thing up, you simply plug it into the wall, or I think one of the coolest
 features is being able to use the solar panels.
 While a solar power generator like this has some applications in the shop, you could
 certainly use certain small tools with it.
 If you're in a low or no power situation, it could definitely get you out of a bind.
 What I'm thinking about are summer camping trips, just times when you're in a remote
 location, you don't necessarily have good access to electricity.
 Something like this is really going to come in handy.
 When we first moved to Missouri, if you follow me on social media, you might have
 seen within the first two weeks of being here, we had a massive flood.
 I was not prepared for that.
 I watched my sump pump in the basement stop working in the middle of this flood and
 just thought to myself, wow, we are screwed if this water level comes up too high because
 I didn't have any kind of battery backup.
 Having a generator like this in the house is going to be just a good insurance
 policy for us.
 We had endless clean energy with solar panels and fast charging.
 These units are incredibly quiet, safe, and reliable.
 You could support high power devices whether you're outdoors, inside the house during
 an outage or in a shop space with limited power options.
 Right now, Jackery is having a big holiday sale that you don't want to miss with
 up to 28% off.
 So thanks for your support, Jackery, and let's get back to our build.
 Now let's cut the support piece to length, taking the measurement from the work stand
 itself.
 With the movable vertical pieces in place, I can mark their location so that I know
 where to drive the screws through the top support piece.
 I can then drop the piece in with some glue and drive a couple more screws.
 Always a good idea to pre-drill if you can.
 Now we need to drill a series of holes.
 The top hole goes all the way through both pieces.
 The rest of the holes will go on the movable piece and you could space them
 however you like.
 The spacing should be as close as you dare since you don't want the holes to
 run into each other, but the more holes you have, the more height options you
 have.
 One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, I added seven, total of eight holes.
 Let's do that on the other side real quick.
 Too cheap to spring for a Bradpoint bit?
 A little faster.
 Oh yeah.
 Now we'll cut a couple of lengths of 3 eighths inch dowel stock that'll
 serve as stops.
 Two holes up.
 Will it support my booty?
 Don't do it.
 All right, so I think that just about does it.
 Now a couple of things you could do to maybe make this a little bit
 better.
 First of all, if you have a Bradpoint bit instead of a regular twist
 bit, that's going to give you much more accurate placement of your
 holes and that's critical for alignment.
 So if you have a little bit of trouble getting your dowel to
 seat correctly, you could always make the outer holes a little bit
 bigger.
 Just give yourself a little bit of room and slack there and that
 should help you find this interior hole.
 That's what we did and it seems to work pretty well.
 You can also adjust the spacing and maybe the size of the dowel
 just to have more increments in heights.
 If you find that this just is always a little bit off, you might
 try a different hole pattern, right?
 So there's a lot of creative ways that you can actually improve
 this design, but I think it's going to work pretty well.
 Only thing left to do is to try it out with the planer and just
 see if it works.
 Oh, that's funny.
 You can go under the board too to get even higher.
 Now, we're going to do a test run with the planer, but we don't
 have dust collection in here.
 So this stuff, the chips, they're just going to go everywhere.
 Jason here is going to hold the shop vac.
 The shop vac is going to be plugged into the jackery.
 We're just going to see if we can't make it a little less messy.