 So, we're back to be my home garage to start from others, so to be a high-end product.
 So, this is the biggest thing we've done so far.
 One thing that really helps when we have a company that's having extra work somewhere,
 sometimes we put something on the inside and it will run around to the other side
 and catch it and it's nice to have something to support it.
 So, we're going to build an adjustable height work stand that you can use all the way
 and we're going to use it as an outlet for the topsoil, whatever you need to use.
 We're also going to do this in a situation where, now, again,
 I've got the Jaguar X1000 here and I'm just helping along with charging the batteries
 so it's going to be there.
 I'm using it here because I'm using it on some tools
 and I've got my laptop charger right here right now.
 So, speaking of the laptop, we're just going to go and grab the machine.
 Let's get it on paper and start cutting it.
 The whole stand is made with a couple of 2.4s and 1.4s.
 That's a hobby.
 On most woodworking projects, I advise people to not cut all the parts right at the beginning
 but that's when we're dealing with expensive hardwoods and incredibly precise measurements.
 On a project like this, it's totally fine to chop everything right at the start
 and then move into assembly.
 We'll need the laser.
 We'll assemble the legs of the stand first.
 A piece of scrap helps support the upright while I use a square to get it all aligned properly.
 By the way, if you have to work in a cold shop,
 it's a good idea to keep your glue inside the house
 and possibly take the parts into a warm place to help the glue cure.
 Type-on 2 really doesn't want to be in anything lower than 55 degrees Fahrenheit or 13 degrees Celsius.
 With a couple of screws at each joint, the legs are ready to go.
 To connect the legs to each other, we'll install a couple of stretchers.
 So, I'm just measuring out the locations and then pre-drilling for screws.
 Over here.
 Now, this is one of those do-as-I-say-not-as-I-do situations
 I really don't advise using your drill battery as a hammer.
 Thankfully, these are like super non-critical.
 Battery on the drill?
 No. The stretchers.
 But I'm doing it anyway.
 I'll clamp the stretchers in place first and then drive the screws.
 I'm going to spin. Get it!
 Now we can start cutting the 1x4s that will make up the adjustable work support.
 I got to make four of these, so I'm just going to do this.
 Well, I like to use both sides of my brain.
 We'll have two pieces glued and screwed to each leg flush with the top.
 This provides a channel for the upright to travel in.
 More. Oh yeah.
 Yeah, I don't want that to be up.
 If anything, I want it down so they're not in the way.
 Let's go!
 Well, it's a good time for a break.
 So what you sound made is we only put a screw in there now.
 And this is a good time to take a break and tell you about this Jackery Explorer 1000.
 We got a lot going on and a very compact form factor here.
 You got a beautiful digital display.
 It tells you how much battery you have left, what kind of output or input if you're charging it.
 We of course have our AC ports here, DC, as well as our USB ports,
 which is great for all the devices.
 Just about everything I have charges via USB these days.
 And of course a cigarette adapter too.
 And if you need it, think about camping, having a built-in light is a pretty nice feature.
 Now to charge this thing up, you simply plug it into the wall.
 Or I think one of the coolest features is being able to use the solar panels.
 Now while a solar power generator like this has some applications in the shop,
 you could certainly use certain small tools with it.
 And if you're in a low or no power situation, it could definitely get you out of a bind.
 What I'm thinking about are summer camping trips.
 Sometimes when you're in a remote location, you don't necessarily have good access to electricity.
 Something like this is really going to come in handy.
 And when we first moved to Missouri, if you follow me on social media,
 you might have seen within the first two weeks of being here, we had a massive flood.
 And I was not prepared for that.
 I watched my sump pump in the basement stop working in the middle of this flood
 and just thought to myself, wow, we are screwed if this water level comes up too high
 because I didn't have any kind of battery backup.
 So having a generator like this in the house is going to be just a good insurance policy for us.
 Provide endless clean energy with solar panels and fast charging.
 These units are incredibly quiet, safe and reliable.
 And you can support high power devices, whether you're outdoors inside the house during an outage
 or in a shop space with limited power options.
 Right now, Jackery is having a big holiday sale that you don't want to miss with up to 28% off.
 So thanks for your support, Jackery, and let's get back to our build.
 Now let's cut the support piece to length, taking the measurement from the work stand itself.
 With the movable vertical pieces in place, I can mark their locations so that I know where to drive the screws through the top support piece.
 I can then drop the piece in with some glue and drive a couple more screws.
 Always a good idea to pre-drill if you can.
 Just kidding. I'm finished.
 Now we need to drill a series of holes.
 The top hole goes all the way through both pieces.
 Trying to prevent some tear out.
 The rest of the holes will go on the movable piece and you can space them however you like.
 The spacing should be as close as you dare since you don't want the holes to run into each other.
 But the more holes you have, the more height options you have.
 One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. I added seven total of eight holes.
 Let's do that on the other side real quick.
 Too cheap to spring for a Brad Point bit?
 Go faster.
 Oh yeah.
 Now we'll cut a couple of lengths of three-eighths inch dowel stock that'll serve as stops.
 Two holes up.
 But will it support my booty?
 Don't do it.
 Don't do it.
 All right, so I think that just about does it.
 Now a couple of things you could do to maybe make this a little bit better.
 First of all, if you have a Brad Point bit, instead of a regular twist bit,
 that's going to give you much more accurate placement of your holes and that's critical for alignment.
 So if you have a little bit of trouble getting your dowel to seat correctly,
 you could always make the outer holes a little bit bigger.
 Just give yourself a little bit of room and slack there and that should help you find this interior hole.
 That's what we did and it seems to work pretty well.
 You can also adjust the spacing and maybe the size of the dowel just to have more increments in heights.
 If you find that this just is always a little bit off, you might try a different hole pattern, right?
 So there's a lot of creative ways that you can actually improve this design.
 But I think it's going to work pretty well.
 The only thing left to do is to try it out with the planer and just see if it works.
 Oh, that's funny. You can go under the board too to get even higher.
 Neato potato.
 Here like that.
 Now we're going to do a test run with the planer, but we don't have dust collection in here.
 So this stuff, the chips, they're just going to go everywhere.
 Jason here is going to hold the shop vac.
 The shop vac is going to be plugged into the jackery.
 We're just going to see if we can't make it a little less messy.