 Hi everyone! Welcome back to my channel. My name is April and if you just bought a sewing machine
 and want to learn how to use it, you came to the right place. This video will cover the basics
 of using a sewing machine along with some must-have sewing supplies and what stitch settings to use.
 This is a beginner video so I won't go into too much detail but hopefully it's enough to get
 you started on some easy projects. Let's get started! First, plug the power cord and press
 it into the side of the machine. Then turn your machine on. I have a computer
 eye sewing machine so the screen will light up and all the functions get resetted.
 Your machine should already come with a needle installed but if not, check to see if the machine
 has a compartment that holds extra needles, bobbins and sewing tools. If you run out of spare
 needles, you can purchase a pack of Schmetz universal needles. They come in a variety of sizes.
 7010 can be used for fabrics like silk, 8010 is a go-to needle you can use for everyday projects
 and 9014 can be used for heavier weight material like denim. To install or replace your needles,
 slide the needle in so that the flat side is facing the back, push it up to the top and
 screw it in place. Most inexpensive machines still come with a few different presser fits to use
 but it is something to consider when shopping for a machine, making sure it has the basic
 accessories. The one that is already attached is usually the main foot. To switch presser
 fits, all you have to do is reach your hand behind and there should be a little lever you press to
 release the foot. To add a presser foot back on, slide the foot underneath and push the little
 bar that's in the middle up until it clicks in place. When you start and finish sewing,
 you'll need to raise and lower your presser foot by reaching to the back and pulling down
 or pushing up the lever. Now we need to thread our machine. Most basic machines have the same
 threading system but do read your manual first and figure out the right way to thread your machine.
 This goes for the rest of the setup as well. Sewing machines need two threads attached to
 work. There's the top thread that is on the spool and the bottom thread that is on a bobbin.
 The brand of thread I like to use is Gooderman and it is 100% polyester.
 First place your spool thread at the top wherever it's supposed to be on your machine.
 Mine lays sideways but yours might stand up. Next grab your empty bobbin. There should be
 some included with your machine but if not you can purchase a pack of plastic bobbins which I
 recommend you do so anyways because you'll eventually need to use a variety of different
 colored threads. Just make sure the bobbins are compatible with your machine. Before threading
 the machine we need to fill up our bobbin. There's normally a little stub on top where you place the
 bobbin and depending on your machine you either need to slide the stub over to enable the bobbin
 threading or you might have to pull out the handwheel on the side to enable the bobbin
 threading. Read your manual to see which it is. Once my bobbin is in place I follow the arrow
 and bring my spool of thread all the way around to my bobbin and wrap the thread around a few
 times to hold it in place. My machine actually has this cool thread cutter right here so I just
 slide it there after wrapping the thread a few times. You can also place the thread into one of
 the holes in your bobbin to keep it out of the way once it starts winding. To wind the bobbin
 just step on your foot pedal and the thread should start wrapping around tightly. My machine stops
 on its own once it's filled up then I switch the stub back to the other side so it's no longer
 in bobbin winding mode. Separate the bobbin thread from the main spool and place the bobbin in its home.
 My machine has a top bobbin loader with a clear cover so I can see when I run out of thread.
 Once I place the bobbin inside I pull the thread out a little and go back to thread the top of the
 machine. Like I said most regular sewing machines have very similar threading systems
 but you basically just follow the arrows. The only part you want to make sure you catch
 correctly is the hook that is inside this crack right here. If you can't see the metal hook that
 you're supposed to thread just turn your hand wheel and it should move up. Bring the thread
 down to the needle and secure in place behind the little hook. Then all you have to do is
 thread your needle. You can do it by hand or if your machine has an automatic needle
 threader you can use that as well. Once your needle is threaded pull the thread out and
 hold onto it with your left hand. With your right hand turn the hand wheel towards you so
 the needle moves down to the bottom and as you keep turning the wheel to bring the needle back
 up tug on the top thread you're holding with your left hand to pull the bobbin thread up to the
 top. Bring both strands to the back of your machine so they're out of the way and we're
 ready for sewing. The first must have sewing tools are fabric scissors because they're super sharp
 and cut clean lines. If you want to invest even more into sewing you can get a rotary cutter
 and cutting mat which you see me use all the time in my videos but it's not necessary for beginners.
 Next I recommend you have a straight ruler and get a clear one so you can see underneath
 and a tape measure to measure the body. The next must have tool is a seam ripper. I own
 many seam rippers because they're always disappearing and I use them all the time for
 undoing mistakes and taking apart clothes. 100% cotton fabric like this is very easy to work with
 and I recommend making beginner projects with them to start off with. Typically you have two layers
 you're sewing together and those two layers usually have a right side and a wrong side.
 To make sure your raw edges and seams aren't showing on the outside of your project you have
 to face the two layers right sides together. When sewing any project you also need to include
 seam allowance. For example if I wanted to make a casing for this card and I just simply trace
 the size of the card and cut out my fabric without adding seam allowance. After I sew it the card won't
 be able to fit inside because it's a lot smaller now. I normally add a half inch seam allowance to
 all my projects. Here's the case I created with seam allowance you can see it fits snug and
 perfectly around the card. Another beginner tip when sewing squares or rectangles is to sew down
 to the corner and then raise your presser foot turn the fabric and continue sewing the other side.
 The next helpful sewing tool I recommend you have are sewing pins or clips. After facing your
 pieces right sides together use your pins to hold everything in place. With the presser foot lifted
 up slide your fabric underneath of it and line it up with whatever your seam allowance is. Most
 machines will have the measurements marked on the metal sewing plate but that can still be
 confusing to follow so for beginners I recommend you mark your seam lines with chalk or disappearing
 ink pen or even a bar of soap. Just make sure it's something temporary and won't stain the fabric.
 My favorite pins to use are the double-sided purple and blue markers. I also use a bar of soap if
 I'm working on dark fabric or fabrics that don't mark easily and I also use chalk. Another way to
 mark your seam allowance if you don't want to mark your fabric is to place a tape or rubber band at
 however much your seam allowance is to use as a guideline for the edge of your fabric to follow.
 And if you're still confused at where these measurements should even be on your machine
 take your ruler and measure from the needle to however much your seam allowance is so you know
 for sure it's correct. My stitch setting is at its default straight stitch and my machine
 automatically resets this straight stitch every time I turn it on. Whenever I need to do a
 basting stitch which is a temporary stitch I just increase my stitch length to the highest number
 my machine will let me go up to and when I'm top stitching I'll bump it up to 3 or 3.5.
 The most important step is to back stitch whenever you start sewing and at the end
 when you finish sewing. If you don't your thread will just unravel and your seam will
 come undone. The only time I wouldn't back stitch is when I'm sewing a basting stitch
 or a temporary stitch to hold things together. To back stitch I first sew a couple stitches forward
 by stepping on my foot pedal and then I hold on to my back stitch button to sew a few stitches back
 and that's it now you can continue sewing the rest of your seam forward. If you're new to
 sewing be gentle stepping on your foot.