 Wood Whisperer sponsored by Typhond. Now that I have a separate commercial space for my regular shop
 I'm finding that I need some tools at home too and thankfully I have a little bit of space in
 garage where I can bring some basic tools and just have the things I need for small house projects.
 So one of those things is a planer and I need a stand for that planer. So that's what we're
 going to do today. It's going to be a bare bones basic DIY style build. I don't really have a
 whole lot in the way of resources here and thankfully we only need a couple of tools.
 And while I do have some power in here I don't have a lot and I thought this would be a good test
 for my new Jackery Explorer 1000. This is a solar power generator and I think this might be pretty
 cool to have on hand for running some of the lights in this space. Of course we're trying to film this
 as well as charging batteries and maybe even running the tool or two off of it. So let's
 get started on this project. It's going to be a good one. Yeah I'm excited about it too.
 I spent some time noodling around and sketch up just to visualize the project before making
 the cut list. Armed with the list of parts I can start cutting the two by fours because
 time is fun. A lot of sap in here. I'll cut all the parts for the primary frame first.
 By the way if you don't have good work support for longer pieces you could sometimes find a
 piece of scrap that'll do the job nicely. Makes for a much more stable cut.
 Time to fire up the drills. We'll get started by making the two side sub-assemblies.
 Now this is a great application for pocket screws. I shouldn't use that word. But I
 don't have my jig here so I'm just going to jam some screws in from the outside.
 To make sure I get the same screw locations in each piece I'm going to mark
 Well that's my name. The locations on a piece of scrap and transfer those lines
 to the other pieces. I'm drilling pilot holes from the outside so that
 the screw travels easily through the first piece and bites into the adjoining piece.
 Even with a four inch screw you want to sink it pretty deep so I'm using a larger bit to
 counter bore about an inch down. I need to clean off the bench so I figured why not
 see if the jackery can run the shop vac and it can. Nice. Each joint will get some glue
 though I'm really pushing the limits of working temps today. It's pretty flippin' cold.
 Whenever driving screws I like to use a clamp to hold the pieces together
 and prevent them from slipping. Now these screws are definitely overkill
 but they're all I had in the four inch plus range so I'm using them.
 Now that's one. Let's assemble the second one. And there's two.
 Now to connect these two with the other rails I'll carefully locate the screw holes.
 The key is to offset them slightly so that they don't hit the previous screws.
 I'll start one side at a time again making use of my clamps to keep things from shifting.
 And now for the other side. Just like that we've got a base.
 Well as you can tell it's pretty cold in here. I think I lost feeling in my left toe.
 That's all part of the experience honey. But this hot chocolate is really helping a lot and this
 is a good time to take a break and tell you about this Jackery Explorer 1000.
 We got a lot going on in a very compact form factor here. You've got a beautiful
 digital display. It tells you how much battery you have left, what kind of output
 or input if you're charging it. We of course have our AC ports here. DC as well as our USB ports
 which is great for all the devices. Just about everything I have charges via USB these days.
 And of course a cigarette adapter too. And if you need it think about camping.
 Having a built-in light is a pretty nice feature. Now to charge this thing up you simply plug it
 into the wall or I think one of the coolest features is being able to use the solar panels.
 Now while a solar power generator like this has some applications in the shop
 you could certainly use certain small tools with it. And if you're in a low or no power
 situation it could definitely get you out of a bind. What I'm thinking about are summer camping
 trips. Just times when you're in a remote location you don't necessarily have good access to
 electricity. Something like this is really going to come in handy. Really nice.
 And when we first moved to Missouri if you follow me on social media you might have seen
 within like the first two weeks of being here we had a massive flood and I was not prepared
 for that. I watched my sump pump in the basement stop working in the middle of this flood. I just
 thought to myself wow we are screwed if this water level comes up too high. Because I didn't have
 any kind of battery backup. So having a generator like this in the house is going to be just a good
 insurance policy for us. Now here's the thing you need to know. Jackery is having an amazing
 sale for Black Friday and Cyber Monday. In fact on their Cyber Monday live stream they're
 going to be doing a huge giveaway including a travel trailer. So we're going to put the links
 in the description if you want to check that out. But at the very least go check out the deals
 that they have so you could save some money if you wanted to pick up one of these generators.
 So thanks for your support Jackery and let's get back to our build. To make the stand mobile
 let's add some three inch casters. The screws won't hold real well long-term in the end grain
 so I add some supplemental pieces to the bottom giving me plenty of room for the four screws.
 And we're mobile. The stand will have a shelf at the bottom and of course we need a surface
 on the top so I'll cut a bunch of one by fours into slats. The two outer slats need to be notched
 for the legs so I'll draw the lines though. I know the lines are kind of hard to see.
 Can't see the line can you Russ? Okay I totally forced that one but
 I'm not one to shy away from low hanging fruit. Slat. I'll use a jigsaw to cut out the notches
 and the Jackery easily handled powering this tool. Pretty awesome. The rest of the slats are
 just spaced by eye and then attached to the frame with a single screw for each slat.
 A single screw in the middle allows the boards to expand and contract freely.
 The top doesn't need anything special so I'll add a little overhang on each side and then
 space them as evenly as I can. Now let's bring in the planer. All right so there you go a one
 day build. In fact this is just a few hours to make something like this and just about anybody
 can do it because you only need a few basic tools and some basic materials but it is a nice
 sturdy stand. We not only have the top support for the planer or honestly any other tool you
 would want to put there but you have the bottom shelf there for extra stock or again another tool
 and you can move it around wherever you need it to be in the shop. Now I really like the idea
 of having the four lockable casters especially on a planer as you're feeding stock through there
 you could potentially be pushing this thing around so four locking casters I think is a really good
 option for something like this. So we will provide plans for this if you want to make one for
 yourself but I just want to thank you guys for watching thank you as always for subscribing
 and we'll see you next time. I hope you can see what a silly waste of resources this was.